>> EGYPT RAMPED UP THE CRACK
TOWN ON THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD
ARRESTING ITS SPIRITUAL LEADER
TODAY.
GOOD EVENING.
>> I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
TONIGHT, SAUDI ARABIA STEPS IN
>> I'M YOU HADDIE WOODRUFF.
TO BLANK U. BANKROLL EGYPT'S
TONIGHT, SAUDI ARABIA STEPS IN
GOVERNMENT AS THE U.S. AND
TO BLANK U. BANKROLL EGYPT'S
OTHERS POONDER CUTTING MILITARY
GOVERNMENT AS THE U.S. AND
ASSISTANCE?
OTHERS POONDER CUTTING MILITARY
>> WE EXPLORE THE CHANGING
ASSISTANCE?
LANDSCAPE OF AGE AND INFLUENCE.
>> WE EXPLORE THE CHANGING
>> THEN A BIG BET ON SERIOUS TV
LANDSCAPE OF AGE AND INFLUENCE.
NEWS.
>> THEN A BIG BET ON SERIOUS TV
AL-JAZEERA LAUNCHES TODAY.
NEWS.
THE PROSPECTS AND THE CHALLENGES
AL-JAZEERA LAUNCHES TODAY.
AHEAD.
THE PROSPECTS AND THE CHALLENGES
>> THE SUPREME COURT'S RULINGS
AHEAD.
ON SAME-SEX MARRIAGE SET
>> THE SUPREME COURT'S RULINGS
REVERBERATIONS ACROSS THE
ON SAME-SEX MARRIAGE SET
COUNTRY.
REVERBERATIONS ACROSS THE
WE LOOK AT HOW STATES ARE
COUNTRY.
GRAPPLING WITH THE LANDMARK
WE LOOK AT HOW STATES ARE
DECISION.
GRAPPLING WITH THE LANDMARK
>> IT MATE BE AUGUST BUT AT THE
DECISION.
WHITE HOUSE TODAY, FOOTBALL WAS
>> IT MATE BE AUGUST BUT AT THE
IN THE AIR, 40 YEARS LATE.
WHITE HOUSE TODAY, FOOTBALL WAS
>> I'M PROUD TO WCOMEEL THE ONLY
IN THE AIR, 40 YEARS LATE.
UNDEFEATED, UNTIED TEAM IN NFL
>> I'M PROUD TO WCOMEEL THE ONLY
HISTORY TO THE WHITE HOUSE FOR
UNDEFEATED, UNTIED TEAM IN NFL
THE FIRST TIME.
HISTORY TO THE WHITE HOUSE FOR
GIVE IT UP FOR THE 1972 MIAMI
THE FIRST TIME.
DOLPHINS!
GIVE IT UP FOR THE 1972 MIAMI
>> AND HEALTH OFFICIALS SAY
DOLPHINS!
300,000 AMERICANS CONTRACT LYME
>> AND HEALTH OFFICIALS SAY
DISEASE EACH YEAR, 10 TIMES MORE
300,000 AMERICANS CONTRACT LYME
THAN PREVIOUSLY THOUGHT.
DISEASE EACH YEAR, 10 TIMES MORE
WE EXPLORE WHAT IS BEHIND THE
THAN PREVIOUSLY THOUGHT.
LATEST NUMBERS.
WE EXPLORE WHAT IS BEHIND THE
>> ALL AHEAD ON TONIGHT'S NEWS
LATEST NUMBERS.
HOUR.
>> EGYPT ACE MILITARY GOVERNMENT
DEALT ANOTHER BELOW TO THE
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD TODAY TAKING
THE GROUP'S STREAM LEADER IN
CUT.
MARGARET WARNER BEGINS OUR
COVERING.
>> AUTHORITIES CHARGE THE
GROUP'S GENERAL GUIDE, MOHAMMED
BADEA WITH INCITING VIOLENCE IN
THE AFTERMATH OFUHA MMMAD
MORRISSEY'S OUST LAST MONTH.
LEADERS CONDEMN THE MOVE.
>> WITH REGARD TO THE REST OF
OUR LEADER, HE RUNS PEACEFUL
PROTESTS AND WE ARE GREATLY
SADDENED ABOUT HIM BEING TAKEN
TO PRISON WITHOUT BEING
PROSECUTED AND LEGAL PROCEDURES.
THIS WILL AFFECT US ALL.
>> BUT ON THE STREETS, SOME
FOUND IT WELCOME NEWS.
THERE'S A GREAT ACHIEVEMENT.
I WAS SO HAPPY.
HE IS A NASTY INDIVIDUAL, AN
ENEMY.
HORRID.
>> THE D.A. IS ON MANY
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD OFFICIALS WHO
HAVE BEEN DETAINED SINCE THE
GOVERNMENT MOVED AGAINST TWO PRO
MORRISSEY ENCAMPMENTS ON
WEDNESDAY.
NEAR APPLY A THOUSAND PEOPLE ARE
SAID TO HAVE DIED THAT DAY AND
ASSISTANCE THEN.
THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD PLATESES
THE DEATH TOLL NEAR 1400.
THE TURMOIL HAS PROMPTED EGYPT'S
INTERNATIONAL PARTNERS,
INCLUDING THE UNITED STATES AND
THE EUROPEAN UNION TO REEXAMINE
THEIR AID TO CAIRO.
THE UNITED STATES, WHICH GIVE US
EGYPT $1.3 BILLION A YEAR IN
MILITARY ASSISTANCE HAS DELAYED
DELIVERY OF FOUR F-16 FIGHTER
EXPWRETS PROVED OUT OF THE
BRIGHT STAR JOINT MILITARY
EXERCISES IN EGYPT SET FOR
SEPTEMBER.
BUT GULF ALLIE SAUS,DI ARABIA,
KUWAIT, AND THE UNITEDDARIAN
EMIRATES HAVE STEPPED IN WITH
SOME $12 BILLION IN MONETARY AND
FUEL AID TO EGYPT SINCE
MORRISSEY WAS DEPOSED ON JULY 3.
MONDAY THESAU DI FOREIGN
MINISTER PROMISED TO FILL ANY
FINANCIAL GAPS LEFT BY OTHER
COUNTRIES SUSPENDING AID.
ON SUNDAY, EGYPTIAN 0 FOREIGN
APPROXIMATE MINISTER FAMI SAID
EGYPT WELCOMED HELP FROM OTHER
QUARTERS SAYING WE ARE NOT
LOOKING TO REPLACE ONE FRIEND
WITH ANOTHER, BUT WE WILL LOOK
OUT TO THE WRLDO AND CONTINUE TO
ESTABLISH RELATIONS WITH OTHER
COUNTRIES SO WE HAVE OPTIONS.
ON THE NEWS HOUR LAST NIGHT,
EGYPT'S AMBASSADOR TO THE U.S.
MOHAMMED TOWFIC SAID THE GROWTH
IS FOR BOTH NATIONS.
>> WE WOULD LIKE IT TO CONTINUE.
WE HAVE THE SAME OBJECTIVE.
WE WANT TO SEE A DEMOCRATIC
SYSTEM IN PLACE IN EGYPT.
>> Reporter: THERE'S SOME
CONFUSION ABOUT THE CURRENT
STATE OF THE PROGRAM.
THE DAILY BEAST FIRST REPORTED
TODAY THAT, ACCORDING TO VERMONT
SENATOR PATRICK LEAHY'S OVATION
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION HAS
SUSPENDED ASSISTANCE
TEMPORARILY.
WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN JOSH
EARNEST INSISTED THAT WAS NOT
TRUE.
>> THIS IS PART OF A COMPLEX AND
BROAD RELATIONSHIP THAT WE HAVE
WITH THE EGYPTIANS.
THAT REVIEW THAT THE PRESIDENT
ORDERED TO EARLY JULY HAS NOT
CONCLUDED AND REPORTS TO THE
CONTRARY THAT -- PUBLISHED
REPORTS TO THE CONTRARY THAT
SUGGEST THAT ASSISTANCE TO EGYPT
HAS BEEN CUT OFF ARE NOT
ACCURATE.
>> BUT LEAHY'S OFFICE STOOD BY
ITS CLAIM IN A STATEMENT SAYING
THE STATE DEPARTMENT AND FOREIGN
OPERATIONS APPROPRIATIONS
SUBCOMMITTEE WAS TOLD THAT THE
TRANSFER OF MILITARY AID WAS
STOPPED, THAT THIS IS CURRENT
PRACTICE, NOT NECESSARILY
OFFICIAL POLICY, AND THERE IS NO
OCCASION OF HOW LONG IT WILL
LAST.
MEANWHILE ADMINISTRATION CABINET
MEMBERS MET AT THE WHITE HOUSE
THIS AFTERNOON TO DISCUSS THE
EGYPT AID QUESTION FURTHER.
>> FOR MORE ON HOW MUCH
INFLUENCE THE U.S. AND OTHER
NATIONS HAVE ON THE UNCERTAIN
SITUATION IN EGYPT, I'M JOINED
BY TALRAK MASSU FROM THE JOHN F.
KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT AND
THE WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF.
WHO HOLDS THE FINANCIAL LEFF
RIMG IN ALL OF THIS?
WE HAVE HEARD TALE OF UAE AND
QATAR AND U.S. AND SAUDI
ARABIA -- WHO IS EGYPT RELYING
ON?
>> YOU ARE WATCHING NEW DYNAMICS
IN THE REGION, AFTER THE WAY THE
UNITED STATES DEALT WITH THE
REGIONAL ISSUES BUT NOW WE HAVE
A COALITION OF THREE ARAB STATES
IN THE GULF WHO ARE PROVIDING
EGYPT WITH THE MOST FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE, $12 BILLION.
THIS IS SOME SORT OF A MARSHALL
PLAN.
IF YOU WERE FROM THE GULF TO
EGYPT AND THIS IS ESSENTIALLY
UNCONDITIONAL AID
UNLIKE.AMERICAN AID WHICH IS RE
VERY CONDITIONED FOR A VARIETY
OF LEGAL REASONABLENESS THIS
COUNTRY.
BUT WHAT YOU ZEE IS A FUNCTION
OF WAY THE ADMINISTRATION HAS
BEEN DEALING WITH THE REGIONAL
ISSUES FOR A WHILE.
THE ADMINISTRATION IS RELUCTANT
ON DECIDING ON ANY ISSUE.
EVEN WHEN IT CONFLICT WES ITS
OWN INTEREST.
FOR EXAMPLE, WITH EGYPT, THE NGO
ISSUE, IT WAS THE MILITARY NOT
THE GOVERNMENT THAT INITIATED
THE LEGAL HARASSMENT AGAINST
INTERNATIONAL NGO'S AND
ORGANIZATIONS INCLUDING A NUMBER
OF AMERICAN ONES.
BUT, INSTEAD OF RAISING HELP,
THE ADMINISTRATION OF PRESIDENT
OBAMA RAISED QUESTIONS.
AND NOW BECAUSE WE ALIENATE ITED
MANY EGYPTIANS OVER THE YEARS,
MANY SAY WE DID NOT CRITICIZE
MUBARAK WHEN WE SHOULD HAVE AND
THEY ARE CORRECT, WE DID NOT
CRITICIZE THE MILITARY WHEN
BETWEEN SHOULD HAVE AND THEY ARE
CORRECT, NOW WE ALIENATED
EVERYBODY AND THE ONLY POWER IN
EGYPT IS THE MILITARY AND WE ARE
TRYING DESPERATELY NOT TO REALLY
ALIENATE THEM COMPLETELY.
>> HOW MUCH DOES EGYPT RELY ON
THIS INTERNATIONAL AID?
WHY IS IT ESSENTIAL?
>> WELL, I THINK AS WAS NOTED IN
YOUR REPO, FRTIRST THE AID FROM
THE UNITED STATES, ABOUT
1.5 BILLION GOES TO THE EGYPTIAN
MILITARY, ABOUT 80 PERCENT OF
THAT 1.5 BILLION TAKES CARE OF
TH EGYPTIAN MILITARY ARMS
SERVICES SO IT'S IMPORTANT FOR
THE EGYPTIAN MILITARY READINESS
AND THEN OF COURSE THE AID THAT
THE SAUDIS HAVE BEEN GIVEN
OBVIOUSLY HELPS THE EGYPTIANS
MEET THEIR CURRENT NEEDS
INCLUDING THEIR SUB SKY PROGRAM
AND ETC.
JOUST TO COME BACK TO THE
QUESTION THAT ANIMATED ALL OF
THIS, GWEN, HOW MUCH LEVERAGE
DOES ANY OF THIS AID BUY
ANYBODY, I THINK IT DOESN'T --
NONE OF THIS AID COULD COMPEL
THE EGYPTIAN MILITARY TO DO
SOMETHING IT DOESN'T WANT TO DO.
YOU HAVE TO REMEMBER IN
FEBRUARY, 2011 WHEN THE MILITARY
WAS TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHETHER
TO DEPOSE MUBARAK IN RESPONSE TO
POPULAR PRESSURE, YOU CAN BET
THAT THE SAUDIS AND THE EMIRATES
AND OTHER GULF COUNTRIES WERE
MAKING QUITE LAVISH PROMISES TO
THE EGYPTIANS THAT IN THEY JUST
CONTINUE TO SUPPORT MUBARAK,
THEY WOULD PROVIDE AID AND THAT
DID NOT SUEDE THE MILITARY, JUST
AS I DON'T THINK THAT LOSING THE
POTENTIAL $1.5 BILLION IN AID,
THE POTENTIAL LOSS OF THAT WOULD
SWAY THE MILITARY NOW IN WHAT IT
CEASE AS AN STECIAL FIGHT
AGAINST INTERNAL FOES IN THE
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD AND ISLAMISTS
THAT THEY THINK WANT TO DESTROY
THE EGYPTIAN STATE.
>> WELL, WE KNOW THAT THERE IS A
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
MEETING AT THE WHITE HOUSE TODAY
AND THERE ARE QUESTIONS OWN THE
TABLE ABOUT WHAT TO DO ABOUT
THIS AID LEVERAGE.
WHAT ARE THE QUESTIONS?
>> I THINK THERE WILL BE SOME
SORT OF A SUSPENSION OF MILITARY
AID.
THEY WILL PLAY DIFFERENT WAY
WITH THE ECONOMIC AID.
BUTT I DON'T THINK IN THE LONG
RUN THEY ARE WILLING AT THIS
STAGE TO MAKE A DECISIVE
DECISION TO REALLY TAKE ON THE
EGYPTIAN MILITARY.
THEY WILL WITHHOLD A HELICOPTER
ATTACK OR PLANES AND AS WE HAVE
SEEN WITH THE SUSPENSION OF THE
F-16.
BUT IN THE END THIS IS NOT A
LEGAL ISSUE NOR THE EGYPTIANS.
THIS IS A POLITICAL ISSUE AND I
DOUBT VERY MUCH THAT EVEN IF YOU
HAVE A TOTAL SUSPENSION OF THE
AID TO THE EGYPTIAN MILITARY
THEY CAN LIVE WITHOUT THE
AMERICAN AID FOR A YEAR OR TWO
AND THIS WILL NOT CHANGE THEIR
BASIC DECISION-MAKING PROCESS
WHEN IT COMES TO THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD.
THERE'S A DECISION BY THEM
SUPPORTED BY THE GULF STATES, TO
CRUSH DID BE UNDERLINE CRUSH,
THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD.
WHAT HAPPENED TO THE MUZ LIMG
BROTHERHOOD IS THE BIGGEST SPLIT
THEY HAVE SUFFERED SINCE 1928
SINCE HEY WERE ESTABLISHED.
THEY ARE DOWN BUT I DOUBT THEY
ARE OUT.
THEY HAVE A LONG HISTORY OF
WORKING UNDERGROUND EGYPT
ENTERED A LONG DARK TUNNEL WHERE
YOU ARE GOING TO SEE A LONG
PROTRACTED CIVIL STRIKING.
>> TO WHAT DEGREE IS WHAT
HAPPENS WITH MONEY, INCOMING
FROM ALL OF THESE DIFFERENT
NATIONS AFFECT THE POTENTIAL FOR
INSTABILITY IN EGYPT AND HOW
LITTLE CONTROL OUTSIDERS MAY
HAVE ON THAT?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, YOU SAID IT
IN YOUR QUESTION, GWEN, I THINK
OUTSIDERS HAVE VERY LITTLE
CONTROL.
THE MILITARY THINKS ITS INVOLVED
IN AN EXISTENTIAL BROTHERHOOD
THEY POINT TO THE BURNING OF
CHURCHES AND OTHER VIOLENCE THEY
ATTRIBUTE TO THE ISLAMISTS AND I
THINK IT'S UNREALISTIC TO EXPECT
ANY AMOUNT OF AMERICAN PRESSURE
TO NECK THE MILITARY OFF OF THIS
COURSE IT HAS CHOSEN FOR ITSELF.
>> IS THAT BECAUSE OTHER PEOPLE
WILL STEP IN AND FILL ANY GAP
LEFT BY THE US FROM F-16 NOBODY
IS STEPPED IN AND THERE WAS NO
SAUDI OR EMIRATES AID, OF THE
MILITARY WOULD CUSTODIAL BE
PURSUING THIS COURSE.
WEE SHOULD NOT UNDERESTIMATE THE
EXTENT THAT THEY BELIEVE THAT
THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD, THE YEAR
OF MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD LEADERSHIP
SECURED THAT COUNTRY.
>> I AGREE.
THE EGYPTIAN MILITARY WOULD HAVE
THOUGHT CAREFULLY BEFORE THEY
EMBARKED ON THIS CRACK DOWN IF
THEY WERE NOT ASSURED BIT GULF
SO THE STATE THERE WOULD BAL
ECONOMIC AID.
THE THEY HAVE A HUGE S.
INTERNATIONAL AT THE TIME AND SO
THE EGYPTIAN IS REALLY ON THE
WAY TO DOE LAPSE LAPSE.
SOMETIMES THEY HAVE LITTLE IS --
AND I FULLY AGREE WITH THAT AND
THAT'S WHY,
WITH-OF-THE-EUROPEANS, FOR
INSTANCE, THEIRABILITY TO
INFLUENCE THAT IS LIMITED.
AND THE SOCIAL FUNCTION MUCH
AMERICA'S DIMINISHING INFLUENCE
THROUGHOUT THE MIDDLE EAST.
ONE OF THE REASONS THE GULF
STATES RADIO ANGRY WITH THE
UNITED STATES NOT ONLY BECAUSE
OF WHAT HAPPENED TODAY IN EGYPT.
IT'S BECAUSE THEY SEE THE
PRESIDENT IS WEAK ON IRAN, WEAK
ON SYRIA AND ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS
AND NOW THEY FEEL --
>> ALL OF THE LEFF VILLAGE GONE.
>> AND NOW THEY ARE STEPPING IN
AND THEY HAVE THE MEANS TO DO
IT.
>> THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> ONLINE WE HAVE A MAP THAT
SHOWS WHERE ALL U.S. MILITARY
AID GUESS.
STILL TO COME ON "THE NEWS
HOUR," AL-ZEEJARA AMERICA HAS
ITS DEBUT.
SAME SEX MARRIAGE IN THE STATES.
THE DOLPHINS DAY AT THE WHITE
HOUSE.
AND LYME DISEASE ON THE RISE.
FIRST THE EERP NEWS OF THE DAY.
>> PAKISTAN'S FORMER PRESIDENT
THE SOME POINT IN TIME BE WAS
SMRMT THERE TO -- WEEP HAVE A
REPORT NARRATED BY JOHN GLA
ARMED PERSONNEL WERE STATIONED
AROUND THE COURTHOUSE.
THIS WAS NOT A MOMENT THAT MUSH
WOULD TREASURE.
HE SEEMED RELUCTANT TO GET OUT
OF HIS VEHICLE.
BUT THE COUNTRY'S FORMER
MILITARY RULER HAD LITTLE
CHOICE.
HE HAD BEEN SUMMONED TO COURT.
PROSECUTORS WERE READY TO INDICT
HIM.
AND IN A 20-MINUTE HEARING,
MR. MUSH WAS CHARGED WITH
MURDERING THE FORMER ICONIC
PRIME D.
PER VERY MUSH DIDN'T SPEAK BUT
HIS LAWYERS PLED NOT GUILTY ON
HIS BEHALF.
THE CASE SHATTERED AN UNWRITTEN
RULE THAT MILITARY LEADERS ARE
UNUCHATOBLE IN PAKISTAN.
REMEMBER, IT'S BEEN RULED BIT
GENERAL'S FOR ONE HALF OF ITS
EXISTENCE.
STILL, MR. MUSHARRAF WILL BE
JUDGED BY THE COURTS AND HIS
LAWYERS SAY THERE'S NO EVIDENCE
HE MURDERED BUTTO.
>> THE IMPORTANT THING IS THAT
YOU HAVE TO PROVE THE
ALLEGATION.
AND STILL, THERE IS NO EVIDENCE.
>> AFTER YEARS OF SELF EX-I'M,
BENAZIR BHUTTO RETURNED IN 2007
TO CONTEST THE ELECTIONS.
>>
>> I FEEL VERY EMOTIONAL COMING
BACK TO MY COUNTRY.
>> SHE KNEW SHE WAS TAKING A
RISK.
SHE NARROWLY ESCAPED ONE
ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT IN
KARACHI.
136 PEOPLE WERE KILLED.
LATER SHE WARNED OF ANOTHER PLOT
TO KILL HER.
>> I HOPE THE NEXT ATTACK IS
GOING TO BE WITH CERTAIN PEOPLE
IN THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
>> AND TWO MONTHS LATER, SHE
WOULD LOSE HER LIFE, AS SHE
WAVED TO SUPPORTERS AFTER A
RALLY IN THE CITY.
>> PER VERY MUSHARRAF, THEN
PRESIDENT, BLAMED THE PAKISTAN
N.LIBA
BUT PROSECUTORS SAY
RESPONSIBILITY LIES WITH
MR.USH  MSHERIFF BECAUSE HE
FAILED TO PROPERLY PROTECT
OTHER.
>> MUSHARRAF WILL BE BACK IN
COURT FOR ANOTHER HEARING NEXT
WEEK.
THE DAMAGED NUCLEAR PLANT IN
JAPAN HAS LEAKED THE LARGEST
AMOUNT OF RADICTIVOAE WATER YET.
300,000 TONS ESCAPED FROM ONE OF
THE STORAGE TANKS AND SEEPED
INTO THE GROUND.
THE PLANT WAS FLOOD BADE MASSIVE
TSUNAMI IN 2011 AND TRIGGERED
MELTDOWNS IN THE REACTORS.
THE POWER COMPANY HAS KNOT
DETERMINED THE
CAUSE-OF-THE-LATEST LEAK AND
ISSUED THIS WASH WARNING.
>> IT'S THE EQUIVALENT OF A
LIMIT FOR ACCUMULATED EXPOSURE
OVER FIVE YEARS FOR NUKE COLLAR
WORKERS SO IT CAN BE SAID WE
FOUND A RADIATION LEVEL STRONG
ENOUGH TO GIVE SOMEONE A FIVE
YEAR DOSE IN ONE HOUR.
>> FOUR OTHER TANKS IN SIMILAR
PLANTS HAVE EXPERIENCED LEAKS
SINCE LAST YEAR.
A PANEL SAYS THERE'S 95 PERCENT
CERTAINTY HUMAN ACTIVITY IS THE
MAIN CAUSE OF GLOBAL WARMING.
THE FINDINGS IN THEIR SUMMARY
WERE PUBLISHED IN THE NEW YORK
SOMETIMES AHEAD OF THE RELEASE.
THE GROUP OF SEVERAL HUNDRED
SIGN THRIFTS WARNED UNLESS
CARBON LEVELS ARE SLOWED, SEA
LEVEL COULD RISE BY MORE THAN
THREE FEET NEAR THE END OF THE
CENTURY.
NEAR HADLY ONE HUNDRED GROUPS
HAVE SIGNED OBJECTION TO THE
CITY OF DETROIT'S GOT FOR
BANKRUPTCY PROTECTION.
THE DEADLINE WAS MONDAY AS
MIDNIGHT.
AMONG THE FILERS WERE THE CITY'S
LARGEST EMPLOYEE UNION.
IT SAID THE CITY HAS NOT PROENV
IT'S INVOLUME SENT.
DETROIT FACES AT LEAST
$18 BILLION IN LIABILITIES.
>> A FEDERAL JUDGE GRANTED
CALIFORNIA PRISON OFFICIALS
PERSONALTION TO FORCE FEED
INMATES, LODGE MG HAD A SEVEN
TWEAK LONG HUNGER STRIKE.
ABOUT 100 PRISONERS HAVE REFUSED
MEALS SINCE JULY 8.
THEY'RE PRO THEFTING GANG
LEADERS VIOLENCE AGAINST
INMATES.
ABOUT 70 OF THE STRIRSKE IN ARE
IN FAILING HEALTH.
STRIKES ON WALL STREET PORE
MENTIONED TODAY BUT THERE ARE
BETTER RESULTS FROM RETAILERS.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 24 POINTS TO
CHOSE AT 3613.
>>
>> THE BEST-SELLING CRIME
NOVELIST ELMORE LEONARD DIED AT
HIS HOME IN MICHIGAN FROM
COMPLICATIONS OF HAD A STROKE.
LEONARD PUBLISHED MORE THAN 40
NOVELS DURING HIS YEAR, MANY
WITH CON MEN AND GANGSTERS AS
THE CHARACTER.
THE NOVEL GLITZ WAS THE NUMBER
ONE BEST-SELLER.
A NUMBER OF HIS BOOKS MADE IT TO
THE BIG SCREEN INCLUDING GET
SHORTY AND JUSTIFIED.
HE WAS 87 YEARS OLD.
NOW BACK TO JUDY.
>> WE TURN TOT LAUNCH OF
AL-JAZEERA AMERICA, AN ALL-NEWS,
AROUND-THE-CLOCK TV NETWORK
AIMING 20 SEPARATE ITSELF FROM
THE FACT PACK AT A CRUCIAL AND
COMPETATIVE TIME INDEPENDENT
INDUSTRY.
>> THIS IS AL-JAZEERA AMERICA.
>> AL-JAZEERA AMERICA HIT THE
AIRWAVES TODAY AT 3: P.M.
EASTERN TIME?
OUR TOP STORY, THE PRESIDENT HAS
CONVENED -- AT A TIME WHEN MANY
NEWS NETWORKS ARE SCALING BACK.
AL-JAZEERA HAS EX PANDAD ITS HE
EFFORTS LAUNCHING ALL NOW
PROGRAMMING FEATURING OF WHAT
WILL BE IN-DEPTH THE DIS -- IT'S
HOPING TO SHAPE UP TRADITIONAL
CAPE NEWS AND INDICATE TORE
AMERICANS LEAKING FOR AN
ALTERNATIVE.
NEAL THORN IS EXECUTIVE RULESSER
OF AL-JAZEERA ENGLISH AND HE IS
PART OF THE TRANSITION TEAM
HELPING WITH THE AL-JAZEERA
AMERICA LAUNCH.
>> THERE'S HAD A WIDE NETWORK OF
BUREAUS HERE AND IN AMERICA, 12,
AND OTHER THAN 70 ACROSS THE
GLOBE.
SO PUT THOSE TWO THINGS TOGETHER
AND YOU GET AN ENORMOUS NEWS
GATHERING MACHINE, VERY
EXPERIENCED CORRESPONDENTS ON
THE GROUND WITH LOCAL KNOWLEDGE.
>> CURRENT LIP 48 MILLION
HOUSEHOLDS CAN ACCESS THE
CHANNEL.
FEWER THAN HALF TELEVISION
SUBSCRIBERS HAVE ANGZ TO CNN.
ITIT IS THE LATEST MOVE FROM A
SMALLER OPERATION IN THE U.S.
WITH AL-JAZEERA ENGLISH.
THAT DECISION CONTINUES TO
BARIUM -- FROM THE HOME BASE IN
AFTERAMP IT MERGED WITH THE CURT
NEWS CHANNEL EARLIER THIS YEAR,
AL-JAZEERA AMERICA HAS FACED
LIMITATIONS.
THE ONLINE LIVE STREAM FEATURE,
WHICH MANY VIEWERS ACROSS THE
U.S. USE TO ACCESS THE NETWORK'S
CONTENT HAS BEEN CUT OFF.
AND MANY CABLE AND SATELLITE
COMPANIES REMAIN RELUCTANT TO
CARRY THE NEWS CHANNEL.
>> IT'S UNDERSTANDABLE THAT THE
LIVE STREAM CABLE COMPANIES,
THAT IT'S A DIFFICULT AREA FOR
THEM SO THERE'S AN UNDERSTANDING
THAT THAT'S THE CASE.
BUT I THINK GOING FORWARD, THERE
WILL BE THE AMBITION TO GET INTO
MORE HOUSEHOLDS AND TO HAVE A
WIDER DISTRIBUTI DEONAL.
>> AND WHILE THE COMPANY TRIES
TO MAKE AL-JAZEERA A HOUSEHOLD
NAME IN THE U.S., IT IS FORCED
TO COMBAT NEGATIVE PERCEPTION
FROM AMERICANS STILL HAVE OF THE
ARAB MUSE CHANNEL.
FOR NOW WITH 850 HIRES ACROSS
THE COUNTRY, OF THE NETWORK WILL
TRY TO SWAY NEW VIEWETO HOUR CAE
NEWS BATTLEFIELD.
>> WHAT'S MUST AL-JAZEERA DO TO
WIN THE FIGHTING?
WE US AND IT WITH 10 RA POTTER,
5 FORMER REPORTER FOR CBS NEWS
AND CNN AND NOW IS HEAD OF A
RESOURCE CENTER FORETELEVISION
AND NEWS ORGANIZATIONS AND
PHILLIP SEED, DIRECTOR OF THE
CENTER FOR PUBLIC DIPLOMACY AND
PROFESSOR THE IS THE
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA.
HE IS LESS AUTHOR OF A NUMBER OF
BOOKS INCLUDING "AL-JAZEERA
ENGLISH."
WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU.
DEBRA POTTER, LET ME START WITH
YOU, SO WHAT DOES AL-JAZEERA
AMERICA BRING TO THE NEWS
LANDSCAPE IN THIS CRIP THAT IS
KNOT ALREADY HERE.
>> THEY'RE APROAMED MG TO BRING
14 SPRMTS, FRESH NEWS THROUGH
THE DAY AND THE EVENING THAT IS
SORT OF STRAIGHT FEARED AND HARD
HITTING.
THEY PROMISE DEPTH AND THEY
PROMISE NOT THE KIND OF THING
THAT YOU SEE ON SOME OF THE
CABLE NETWORKS, LOTS OF OPINION
AND SHOUT FESTS AND SO FORTH.
THAT'S WHAT THEY SAY THEY WILL
BE DELIVERING.
>> AND IS THAT DIFFERENT FROM
WHAT EXISTS IN THE LAND ESCAPE
RIGHT NOW?
WE COULD ARGUE ABOUT SOMEWHAT
OUT THERE BUT HOW DO YOU SAY
WHAT THEY BRING.
>> I THINK THEY'RE COUNTING ON
THERE BEING AN AUDIENCE FOR
OLD-FASHIONED JOURNALISM.
I EXPECT THEY HAD DO A LOT OF
INVESTIGATIVE WORK FOR AND STAY
AWAY FROM THE LINDSAY LOHANS
ESCAPADES AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
>> YOU HAVE WRITTEN A BOOK ABOUT
AL-JAZEERA ENGLISH OF THE, TELL
US A LITTLE ABOUT WHO THE OWNERS
ARE, AND WE KNOW THEY'RE BASED
IN THE PERSIAN GULF KINGDOM OF
QATAR.
WHAT WHO ARE THEY AND WHAT IS
THEIR CONNECTION TO AL-JAZEERA
AMERICA?
>> WELL, THERE'S A BOARD
DIRECTORS FOR THE THE AL-JAZEERA
PARENT COMPANY WHICH HAS
AL-JAZEERA ARABIC, ENGLISH,
AL-JAZEERA AMERICA, THERE'S AN
AL-JAZEERA STATION IN SARAJEVO,
THEY HAVE SPORTS CHANNELS AND
CHILDREN'S CHANNEL AND IT'S
BASIC LITTLE A REULT -- WHICH IS
WHY 58 JAZZ NETWORK HAS A
FINANCIAL SYSTEM THAT SEARCH
GOING TO ENVY.
SO IF AL-JAZEERA AMERICA WANTS
TO SEND A REPORTING TEAM TO SOME
OBSCURE PLACE THEY DON'T HAVE TO
WORRY ABSENT BUDGET AND THAT
SHOULD GIVE THEM A LEG NEWSPAPER
THEIR REPORTING EFFORTS.
>> IS IT PRETTY MUCH UNLIMITED
BUDGET SPENDING.
>> IT SOUNDS LIKE IT.
THEY ARE E VERY DEEP POCKETS
THEY'RE IS THE -- ARE ABOUT SIX
MONTHS AN HOUR IS WHAT THEY SAY
THEY WILL HAVE, WHICH SUGGESTS
THEY VOBT BLN ABLE TO LINE UNHLD
OR IF THEY WANT TO KEEP ITTOWN
TO DIFFERENTIATE THEMSELVES FROM
WHAT IS ALREADY AVAILABLE.
>> DEBRA POTTER, QUESTIONS HAVE
BEEN CLEARLY RAISED ABOUT HOW
MUCH CONTROL, EDITORIAL CONTROL
OWN THE PART OF THE OWNERS,
WHETHER THERE SHOULD BE ANY
CONCERNS ABOUT EDITORIAL FREEDOM
ON THE PART OF THIS CHANNEL?
>> WELL, I WILL CERTAINLY SAY
THE JOURNALISTS THAT HAVE GONE
TO WORK THERE HAVE BEEN PROMISED
EDITORIAL FREEDOM.
THEY'RE NOTE EXPECTING TO BE
MENTIONED WITH FROM THE MIDDLE
EAST.
THERE WERE ISSUES WHEN
AL-JAZEERA ENGLISH LAUNCHED,
SOME PROMINENT PEOPLE LEFT,
SAYING THEY HAD HAD THEIR
STORIES AND THEIR COPY DICTATED
FROM ACROSS THE OCEAN AND I
THINK MAYBE THE CHANNEL LEARNED
SOMETHING FROM THAT AND REALIZED
THEY GOT A BLACK EYE AND DON'T
WANT TO DO THAT BE AGAIN.
>> HOW DO YOU SEE THE EDITORIAL
OF ALREADY EDITORIAL FREEDOM.
>> I THINK AL-JAZEERA IN QATAR
KNOWS TO SUCCEED IN THE UNITED
STATES ANYWAY HAVE TO CLEARLY OF
COURSE INDEPENDENT IS IF THERE'S
NIP CONTROVERSY BY MEDDLING BY
THE PEOPLE WHO HOLD THE MONEY
THINK THAT WILL BE A BIG ISSUE.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO DISTINGUISH
BETWEEN ALJATZ AMERICA AND
AL-JAZEERA ARABIC.
AL-JAZEERA PARISHISTIC IS IN THE
NEXT IS THE -- I DON'T THINK IT
WILL BE SET UP KNOB M TO BE
ABOUT NEWS ORGANIZATION THAT
REPRESENTS NOT ONLY THE
AL-JAZEERA BRAND BUT CAT TARP
PLANT AND THEY WANT IT TO BE
HIGH QUALITY.
>> THERE'S BEEN A REPORT WRITTEN
BY ONE OFFICIAL WORRIED THAT
ALJATZED WRERK WAS TRIESM TO --
YEAH.
>> SO THAT SAME ISSUE CAME UP
WITH AL-JAZEERA ENGLISH, THAT
PEOPLE AT THE ARABIC CHANNEL
WERE AFRAID THAT THEY WERE GOING
TO SOFTEN THE IMAGE OF
AL-JAZEERA BUT THESE THINGS WORK
OUT, AND I THINK THAT THE
AL-JAZEERA ARABIC AND ENGLISH
AND AMERICA WILL BE ABLE TO
COVER THIS QUITE NICELY.
>> WE REPORTED THEY ARE ONLY
SEEN IN HALF AND MAYBE LESS THAN
HALF OF AMERICAN HOMES BECAUSE
OF THE CABLE, LIMITED CABLE
ACCESS AT THIS POINT.
HOW MUCH OF A CHALLENGE IS THAT?
>> IT'S ENORMOUS.
I THINK EVEN THOSE HOMES THAT
GET AL-JAZEERA AMERICA TODAY,
MANY OF THEM DON'T KNOW IT
BECAUSE THEY NEVER FOUND CURRENT
TO BEGIN WITH WHICH IS THE
CHANNEL AL-JAZEERA BOUGHT TO PUT
THIS ON THE AIR.
SO THEY HAVE A PENETRATION ISSUE
WHICH IS THAT THEY NEED TO BE
AVAILABLE IN MORE HOMES AND THEN
THEY HAVE TO BECOME VISIBLE TO
THOSE HOMES IN WHICH THEY ARE
AVAILABLE.
SO IT'S A TWO-STEP PROCESS.
IT'S GOING TO TAKE TIME.
>> HOW TOUGH IS IT TO GET ON
THOSE CABLE DELIVERY SYSTEMS,
PHIL?
>> PRETTY DIFFICULT.
I LIVE IN PASADENA, CALIFORNIA,
AND I CAN'T GET AL-JAZEERA
AMERICA ON A CABLE CHANNEL.
I THINK THERE'S A POLITICAL HANG
OVER FROM THE EARLY DAYS OF THE
BURKES WHEN AL-JAZEERA WAS
GREATLY VILIFIED AND SOME OF
THESE CHARACTERS I THINK ARE
STILL A LITTLE SCARED OF THAT.
BUT IF AL-JAZEERA AMERICA STARTS
DELIVERING A GOOD PRODUCT I
THINK THERE WILL BE PUBLIC
DEMAND FOR IT AND PEOPLE WILL
HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO CHOOSE
WHETHER THEY WANT TO WATCH IT OR
NOT.
>> WHAT IS THE MEASUREMENT THAT
YOU'LL BE JUDGING THEM BY?
WHAT SHOULD WE LOOK FOR FROM
THEM?
>> WELL, I THINK THEY'RE NOT
SUBJECTING THEM SELF-ESTEEM
BHAIFNED THE SIZE OF THEIR
AUDIENCE FROM FROM THE GIT-GO.
WHAT WAY THAT IS NOT THE MEASURE
MEASURE, MY INTEREST WOULD BE
THE QUALITY OF THE JOURNALISM.
THEY HAVE HIRED GOOD JOURNALISTS
OF WHOM WE HAVE BOTH WORKED WITH
OVER THE YEARS AND THEY MADE
PROMISES TO THEM THAT THEY'RE
GOING TO BE ABLE TO DO SERIOUS,
HARD-HITTING, IN DEPTH COVERAGE
THAT IS NOT AVAILABLE ANYWHERE
ELSE, THAT WILL BE UNDERCOVER
COMMUNITIES IN THE UNITED
STATES.
IF THEY DELIVER ON THAT PROMISE,
I THINK THERE WILL BE A DEMAND
FOR IT.
HOW MUCH OF A DEMAND, I DON'T
KNOW.
BECAUSE ONE OF THE CHALLENGES IS
THAT AMERICANS SAY THEY WANT
IN-DEPTH HARD SERIOUS NEWS BUT
THEY DON'T ACTUALLY WATCH IT.
>> WHAT WILL YOU BE WATCHING
FOR, PHIL?
>> WELL, I THINK THE SERIOUSNESS
OF THE JOURNALISM IS IMPORTANT
BECAUSE WHAT THE PEOPLE IN DOHA
WANT IS FOR THE PEOPLE IN THE
UNITED STATES TO BE TALKING
ABOUT AL-JAZEERA AMERICA, TO BE
SAYING TO EACH OTHER, DID YOU
SEE THAT STORY LAST KNIGHT.
AL-JAZEERA, SINCE ITS INCEPTION
HAS WANTED TO BE A MAJOR PLAYER
IN THE INTERNATIONAL NEWS BRINGS
EXP THE FACT IS, YOU CANNOT BE A
MAJOR PLAYER UNLESS YOU HAVE A
U.S. AUDIENCE.
THAT'S WHY THEY USED SO MUCH
MOUNT TO BUY UP TV AND THEY'RE
SPENDING SO MUCH NOW, THEY WANT
TO BE SEEN AS A MAJOR PLAYER.
>> PHILLIP AND DEBRA, THANK YOU
BOTH.
>> YOUR NAME
COCHLEARER
>> NOW WE LOOK AT THE SUPREME
COURT RULING ON SAME-SEX
EXPHAIRNLG HOW THEY'RE
INTERPRETED ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
>> THE JUNE DECISION ON THE
DEFINES OF MARRIAGE ACT AND
CALIFORNIA'S PROPOSITION
8 DIDN'T END THE DEBATE OVER GAY
MARRIAGE.
THE ISSUE IS STILL ON THE DOCKE,
PENNSYLVANIA AND ELSEWHERE, UP
FOR DEBATE IN STATE LEGISLATURES
AND OWN THE BALLOT.
FOR AN UPDATE WE TURN TO JOHN
EASTMAN, A CHAPMAN UNIVERSITY
LAW SCHOOL PROFESSOR AND
CHAIRMAN.
BOARD OF THE NATIONAL
ORGANIZATION FOR MARRIAGE.
AND JAMESES EX-,THE DIRECTOR OF
THE GAY, LESBIAN, BISEXUAL AND
TRANSGENDER PROJECT AT THE
AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION.
DID THE SUPREME COURT DECISIONS
ON DOMA AND PROP 8 CHANGE THE
LEGAL STRATEGY AND CHANGE THE
LANDSCAPE THAT FACES
PRO-LEGALIZATION AND
ANTI-LEGALIZATION FORCES?
>> WELL, IT DIDN'T CHANGE THE
DOCTRINE OR THE STRATEGY.
WHAT IT DOES, IT REINFORCES WHAT
WE'RE ALREADY DOING.
THAT IS, WE HAVE GOTTEN TO THE
PLACE WE'RE AT NOW WHICH IS 13
STATES PLUS THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA, THROUGH DIFFERENT
MEANS.
WE HAVE IT THROUGH COURT
DECISIONS, A BUNCH OF STATE
LEGISLATURES PASSED THOSE BILLS
AND THEN THE PEOPLE VOTED LAST
FALL IN THE BALLOT IN THREE
STATES.
AND OUR WAY FORWARD IS MORE OF
THE SAME.
WE WILL GO TO STATE LEGISLATURES
AND GO TO THE BALLOT AND WHERE
APPROPRIATE, GO TO COURT.
>> PROFESSORRED EASTMAN LAST
WEEK A NEW JERSEY COURT HEARD AN
APPEAL OF THE XOIFTING STATE LAW
THERE, BASED ON THE SUPREME
COURT'S REASONING IN THE CASE.
THE MONTGOMERY COUNTY IN
PENNSYLVANIA IS MARRYING PEOPLE
CONTRARY TO THE LAWS OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
WOULD THIS CHANGE WHAT THE
ANTI-LEGALIZATION FORCES HAVE TO
DO NOW?
>> I THINK IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
AND THE PEOPLE THAT ARE OPPOSED
TO REDEFINING THE CORE
INSTITUTION OF MARRIAGE ARE
GOING TO CONTINUE TO FIGHT.
JUSTICE KENNEDY'S OPINION IN THE
DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE ACT CASE
RESTS HEAVILY ON THE FACT THAT
STATES ARE THE PRIMARY
DETERMINES OF MARRIAGE POLICY IN
OUR COUNTRY.
SO IT'S A LITTLE ODD FOR
SOMEBODY IN PENNSYLVANIA TO SAY
I'M GOING TO USE THAT DECISION
TO UNDERCUT THE POLICY OF
PENNSYLVANIA WITH RESPECT TO
MARRIAGE.
NOW THERE ARE OTHER PARTS OF
JUDGE KENNEDY'S OPINION THAT ARE
VERY FLOWERY LANGUAGE THAT HAVE
EQUAL PROTECTION TYPE ASPECT TO
THEM BUT JUSTICE KENNEDY DOESN'T
SETTLE THAT.
SECTION TWO OF THE DEFENSE OF
MARRIAGE ACT IS STILL IN PLACE
AND THAT SAYS NO STATE HAS TO
RECOGNIZE MARRIAGES PERFORMED IN
OTHER STATES IF IT RUNS COUNTER
TO THE BASIC POLICY JUDGMENT OF
THE STATE.
SO THE PENNSYLVANIA LOCAL
REGISTRAR, I THINK, IS WRONG.
WE'RE GOING TO FACE THAT OUT IN
LITIGATION AND THERE'S AND A
NUMBER OF OTHER STATES WHERE
SIMILAR ACTIONS ARE BEING GLAIN
IN THOSE OTHER STATES THAT HAVE
HAD A DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE ACT ON
THE BOOKS, DOES THE SUPREME
COURT OPINION SEND AN OPINION
THAT THERE MAY BE PATCHES IN THE
LANGUAGE, THINGS TO MAKE THEIR
LAWS FEDERAL DOMA PROVE?
DO THERE HAVE TO BE CHANGES.
>>> I DON'T THINK.
SO THE STATUTES AND THE STATE
CONSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS DEFINE
MARRIAGE HAS IT HAS BEEN IN
HISTORY, A MAN AND A WOMAN,
DON'T NEED TO BE CHANGED.
EITHER THE SUPREME COURT IS
GOING TO FIND A RIGHT TO
REDEFINE MARRIAGE IN THE FEDERAL
CONSTITUTION AND ALL OF THOSE
WILL BE INVALID, INCLUDING IN
ALL 37 STATES THAT CONTINUE TO
HAVE TRADITIONAL MARRIAGE LAWS
OTHER THE SUPREME COURT IS NOT
GOING TO FIND THAT RIGHT IN THE
FEDERAL CONSTITUTION OR MAKE IT
UP, IN WHICH CASE WE WILL FIGHT
THIS OUT IN THE STATES IN THE
POLITICAL ARENA, WHICH IN A
DEMOCRACY IS WHERE POLICY SHOWS
NEED TO BE FOUGHT OUT.
>> AS YOU MENTIONED THE FIGHT
WAS ALREADY WELL UNDER WAY IN A
LOT OF STATES WHERE PEOPLE WERE
JUST WAIT FOG SEE WHAT'S PEOPLE
WERE WAIT TO GO TO DO.
IF YOUR TEA IN ILLINOIS WHERE
THE SENATE PASS ADD LEGALIZATION
LAW, THE GOVERNOR PROMISED TO
SIGN IT, PUT U. BUT IT WAS
PULLED BEFORE IT 20 TO THE
HOUSE, WHAT AFFECT DOES THE
SUPREME COURT RULING HAVE?
DOES IT GIVE NEW HOPE OR
STRENGTH TO PEOPLE WHO WANT TO
MAKE IT LEGAL IN ILLINOIS?
>> THE THREE COURT DECISION IN
THE DOMA CASE HELPS THE
POLITICAL MOVEMENT.
IT DOES IT IN SOME STATES IN A
VERY SIMPLE WAY.
PRIOR TO THE DEMISE OF THE
DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE ACT, IF
ILLINOIS GHAIV PROTECTIONS TO
SECTION COUPLES IN A CIVIL
UNION, YOU DIDN'T GET MUCH IN
THE WAY OF DIFFERENT PROTECTIONS
IF YOU GOT A MARRIAGE.
NOW, AFTER DOMA IS GONE, IF
ILLINOIS GIVE US SAME-SEX
COUPLES CIVIL UNIONS, IT GETS
ALL OF THE STATE PROTECTION AND
NONE OF THE FEDERAL PROTECTIONS
THAT COME WITH MARRIAGE.
IF ILLINOIS PHILLIPS TO GIVING
THE FREEDOM TO MARRY TO SAME-SEX
COUPLES ALL OF A SUDDEN SAME-SEX
COUPLES GET ALL OF THE STATE AND
FEDERAL PROTECTIONS AND THERE'S
A VAST DISPARITY EVEN MORE THAN
BRVETION BETWEEN CIVIL UNION AND
MARRIAGE AND I THINK THAT IS
GOING TO MEAN THERE ARE A LOT OF
SLOARS WHO ARE TAKING ANOTHER
LOOK AT THIS ISSUE.
>> PROFESSOR, YOU HEARD JAMESES
EX-SAY IT GRIFS POLITICAL
STRENGTH TO THE PRO-LEGALIZATION
FORCES.
>> WHAT IS THE ASSIGNMENT NOW
FOR PEOPLE WHO, LIKE YOURSELF,
WANT TO KEEP THE SITUATION WHERE
THIS?
>> WELL, I THINK THE OTHER SIDE
OF THAT COIN IS WHAT WE SAW
HAPPEN IN ILLINOIS.
BOTH PARTS OF THE LEGISLATURE
ARE CONTROLLED BY DEMOCRATSET Y
THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN PASS POUR
ROSE UP TO PUT A STOP TO THIS
TRAIN THAT WAS GOING FORWARD IN
ILLINOIS, AND THEY ALMOST
SINGLE-HANDEDLY STOPPED THE
REDEFINITION OF BILL FROM GOING
THROUGH THE ILLINOIS REGULATE
OUR.
THAT'S INTERESTING BECAUSE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN PASTORS
CONFRONT OF DEMISE OF THE FAMILY
MORE THAN ANY OTHER SEGMENT OF
OUR POPULATION.
AND WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO DO IS
REDEFINE THE INSTITUTION OF
MARRIAGE TO SAY THAT FATHERS ARE
OPTIONAL.
THAT'S PREDICTABLY GOING TO HAVE
DEVASTATING CONSEQUENCES ARE
CIVIL SOCIETY AND I THINK THAT'S
WHY THIS THING WAS PULLED FROM
THE ILLINOIS LEGISLATURE BEFORE
IT WENT FORWARD.
PEOPLE PROSECUTE STANDING BACK
AND START TO THINK ABOUT THE
CONSEQUENCES THAT MAY FLOW FROM
THIS RADICAL REDEFINITION OF
MARRIAGE.
>> IS THERE A 50 STATE STRATEGY
OR HAVE SEVERAL DIFFERENT
STRATEGIES BEEN UNLEASHED OVER
THE PAST SEVERAL MONTHS.
>> WELL, WE'RE CONTINUING TO
WORK THROUGH MULTIPLE MEANS TO
GET MORE STATES THAT ALLOW
SAME-SEX COUPLES TO MARRY.
LOOK, IT'S CLEAR WHAT MARRIAGE S
MARRIAGE IS ABOUT FAMILY AND
COMMITMENT AND LOVE.
AND WHEN SAME SEX COUPLES MAKE
THE COMMITMENT THAT IS AT THE
CORE OF MARRIAGE, IT'S ONLY FAIR
THEY GET THE PROTECTIONS THAT
COME WITH THAT AND THAT COME
WITH MARRIAGE
SHE HAS BEEN WORKING A SERIES
ABSENT THE DISEASE AND ITS
IMPACT.
WELCOME.
FIRST OF ALL HOW SIGNIFICANT ARE
THE NEW NUMBERS, MORE CASES THAN
PREVIOUSLY THOUGHT.
>> YOU KNOW, THE REALLY
SIGNIFICANT, POLITICALLY
ESPECIALLY.
FOR YEARS SCIENTISTS AND THOSE
WHO WORK WITH PATIENT WHOSE HAVE
LYME DISEASE FELT THE NUMBERS
WERE OFF.
THERE WERE ESTIMATES IN THE 90S
THAT SAID LYME DISEASE WAS UNDER
REPORTED BY THREE TO 12 FOLD BUT
NO ONE HAD A GOOD HAND ON THOSE
NUMBERERS.
SO YOU KNOW, SORT OF POLITICALLY
WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT FUNDING TO
PROTECT PEOPLE AGAINST LIME, IT
WAS SORT OF LOW OWN THE TOTEM
POLL.
BUT WITH THIS NEW RESEARCH WHICH
IS NOT YET COMPLETE, THE NUMBERS
COULD GO MUCH HIGHER.
300,000 PEOPLE IS FAR DIFFERENT
THAN THE 30,000 THAT THE CDC HAS
BEEN TALKING ABOUT.
>> YOU TALK ABOUT
UNDERREPORTING, HOW WELL
UNDERSTOOD IS LYME DISEASE, EVEN
AT THIS POINT?
>> YEAH, SO THERE'S MUCH TO BE
SCUFERREDZ AND THIS SORT OF
OFTENS THE DOOR TO THIS
INCREDIBLE CONTROVERSY, AND LYME
DISEASE THAT MANY PEOPLE AREN'T
AWARE OF THAT SOME DOCTORS HAD
THE TROUBLE WITH BODY TBARDZ TO
PROTECT THEMSELVES FROM PATIENTS
WHO HAVE GIVEN THEM DEATH
THREATS.
IT'S A VERY CONTROVERSIAL
DISEASE IN LARGE PART BECAUSE
THERE ARE SOME QUESTIONS ABOUT
TREATMENT IN LINGERING SYMPTOMS
FOR PEOPLE WITH LIME AND PEOPLE
WHO HAVE LYME DISEASE THAT ARE
SICK.
>> JUST TO GET TO THE
CONTROVERSY, TELL US WHAT IS THE
NORMAL COURSE OF TREATMENT?
WHAT -- WHAT IS IT AND HOW DOES
IT STAND NOW?
>> TRADITIONALLY YOU GET BIT BY
A TICK, FEEL A RASH OR ARE SICK.
YOU GO TO THE DOCTOR AND THEY
DIAGNOSE YOU AND YOU WOULD GET
THREE TO FOUR WEEKS OF ORAL
ANTIBIOTICS AND THAT IS ENOUGH
TO KNOCK THE DISEASE FROM YOUR
SYSTEM COMPLETELY.
SOMETIMES IT GOES LONGER IF IT'S
MORE INVOLVED.
SHORT COURSES OF ANTIBIOTICS
OVER ALL.
HOWEVER, A LARGE SEGMENT OF
PEOPLE I BELIEVE THAT THEIR
SYMPTOMS LINGER FOR YEARS
SOMETIMES AND THE ONLY TWAY TO
TREAT THEM IS TO USE LONG COURSE
ANTIBIOTICS OFTEN THROUGH
INTRAVENOUSLY OR ORALLY FOR
YEARS ON END SO THEY CAN LIVE
AND SO THEY CAN REALLY GET OUT
OF BED IN THE MORNING, AND THAT
IS A CONTROVERSY, THE MEDICAL
ESTABLISHMENT SAYS, LISTEN,
THERE'S NO PROOF THE LONGER
COURSE OF ANTIBIOTICS WORKS AT
ALL, AND THESE LYME PATIENTS
SAY, YES, IT DOES, JUST LOOK AT
US.
WE CAN GET OUT OF BED IN THE
MORNING.
AND A LOT OF DEBATE IS OVER THE
INSURANCE COMPANIES BECAUSE THEY
WON'T PAY FOR THE ANTIBIOTICS
AND AS A RESULT A LOT OF PEOPLE
LOSE THEIR HOUSE, THEY SELL
THEIR CAR TO PAY FOR THE DRUGS.
>> YOU HAVE TALKED TO A LOT OF
PEOPLE IN THESE CIRCUMSTANCES
WHO HAVE BEEN TOLD WHILE THE
TREATMENT IS DORNTION YOU SHOULD
BE CURED BUT THEY STYLE FEEL --
THEY STILL FEEL SOMETHING IS
GOING ON.
>> THEY DO.
IT'S COMPLICATED BY THE FACT THE
MEDICAL ESTABLISHMENT
ACKNOWLEDGES AND GREECE THAT UP
TO 25 PERCENT OF PEOPLE THAT
HAVE BEEN TREATED FOR LYME HAVE
LINGERING SYMPTOMS, SOMETIMES
FOR DAYS OR LONGER AND THEY
BELIEVE IT FALLS OFF QUICKLY.
BUT SOMETHING IS GOING ON AND
THEY'RE NOT SURE WHAT IT IS.
BUT WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT ARE
PEOPLE THAT HAVE BEEN SICK FOR
YEARS AND MONTHS AND MONTHS AND
MONTHS AND THEY JUST DON'T GET
BETTER.
THEY COMPLAIN OF FATIGUE, OF
BEING TIRED, OF SHOOTING PAINS,
SOMETHING CALLED BRAIN FOG WHERE
THEY CAN'T REMEMBER HOW TO DRIVE
HOME IN THE MIDDLE OF THE DAY
AND THOSE ARE SYMPTOMS AND
THAT'S WHERE THE DEBATE LIES.
>> I KNOW YOU HAVE YOU BEEN AT A
CONFERENCE THAT IS ONGOING NOW
IN BOSTON ABOUT LYME DISEASE.
IS THERE -- HOW MUCH IS THERE A
DEBATE WITHIN THE RESEARCH
ESTABLISHMENT ABOUT THE
TREATMENT?
>> THAT'S A REALLY GOOD
QUESTION.
THERE DOES NOT SEEM TO BE A
GREAT DEAL OF DEBATE IN THE
MEDICAL ESTABLISHMENT THAT
PATIENTS WITH LYME WHO HAVELING
RING SYSTEMS SHOULD USE
LONG-TERM ANTIBIOTICS.
BUT WHAT IS INTERESTING IS THAT,
BECAUSE PEOPLE DEBRIS THAT SOME
PEOPLE REMAIN SICK, THERE'S GOOD
RESEARCH GOING INTO WHY.
THERE'SWORK AT YALE AND A MAYBE
THE BACTERIA LEAVES BITS OF
PROTEIN BEHIND.
THERE'S HAD A STUDY AT TUFTS
THAT SAYS, MAYBE IN ANIMAL
STUDIES THE BACTERIA DOES
SURVIVE, IT SEEMS WEAKENED IN A
WAY AND DOESN'T MAKE PEOPLE SICK
BUT THEY'RE TRYING TO FIND OUT
IF THAT IS FLEW HUMANS.
AS YOU SAID, THE NEW NUMBERS,
YOU EXPECT IT WILL PUSH THE
DEBATE FORWARD EVEN POLITICALLY?
>> I THINK SO.
IF YOU JUST CONSIDER
MASSACHUSETTS, WHICH IS "THE
BOSTON GLOBE" IS, WEE SPEND
$10 MILLION A YEAR AND MORE ON
MOSQUITO CONTROL.
WE SPEND $60,000 ON TICK BORNE
DISEASES.
THE DISPARITY IS GREAT AND AS
LYME DISEASE GROWS ON PUBLIC
HEALTH, I THINK PEOPLE ARE
HOPING THAT THE POLITICAL FORCES
WILL COME TO BARE THAT THEY WILL
START SEEING MONEY TO ERADICATE
TICKS N. THE ENVIRONMENT OR HELP
PEOPLE LEARN MORE ABOUT THEM.
>> BETH DAILY OF "THE BOSTON
GLOBE," THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> FINALLY TONIGHT, DOLLY
PARTON'S LONG TIME PASSION
PROJECT, PASSING ON THE GIFT OF
READING.
WEE TAKE AN ENCORE LOOK AT A
STORY FROM THE NEWS HOUR SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT FOR EDUCATION,
JOHN MARROW.
>> HELLO!
TUMBLE OUT OF BULKHEAD AND
STUMBLE TO THE KITCHEN, POUR
MYSELF A CUP OF AMBITION
.
>> MOST OF YOU ARE FAMILIAR WITH
DOLLY PARTON BUT TO SOME SHE ZOO
MORE THAN A COUNTRY MUSIC STAR.
>> EVERYWHERE I GO, THE KIDS
CALL ME THE BOOK LADY.
>> THE BOOK LADY?
IT'S NOT SURPRISING TO THESE
CHILDREN.
>> I LOVE READING BOOKS.
ING IS MY FAVORITE THING TO.
>> I FAVORITE WAS TORTOISE IS
THE HARE.
>> DAVID GESS UBACK TO SCHOOL.
>> WHERE DO THE BOOKS COME FROM?
>> DOLLY PARTON.
>> DOLLY PARTON SENT ME THE
BOOKS.
>> IN 1996 DOLLY CREATED WHAT
SHE CALLS THE IMAGINATION
LIBRARY TOO SEND FREE BOOKS TO
HOMES LIKE THIS ONE.
>> I LIKE THIS ONE BECAUSE IT
REMINDS ME OF MY GRANDMA.
>> IF SHE HAD NOT HAD THOSE
BOOKS SHE WOULDN'T HAVE HAD
ANYTHING UNTIL SHE STARTED
KINDERGARTEN.
>> MADELINE AND HER GREAT
GRANDMOTHER LIVE IN PIGEON
FORGE, TENNESSEE.
>> MATTIE WAS VERY QUIET WHEN
SHE WAS LITTLE BECAUSE SHE JUST
MOVED AROUND SO MUCH.
SHE WOULD ALWAYS EITHER HAVE TO
BE WITH HER MOTHER OR HER FATHER
AND I THINK THE BOOKS, SHE
CARRIED THEM WITH HER A LOT OF
TIMES.
THAT WAS HERS SHOO. HE HAD
SOMETHING THAT SHE COULD CALL
HERS.
>> THE LITTLE GIRL HAS A GRATE
IMINATAGION LIKE ME.
>> SHE THINKS OF A MONSTER, A
GREEN MONSTER.
RIGHT HERE.
AND THE GRANNY TELLS HER NOT TO
WORRY.
>> WE SEND THESE BOOKS TO THEM
WITH THEIR LITTLE NAME ON IT.
THEY LOOK FORWARD TO GOING TO
THE MAILBOX.
THIS IS THEIRS.
THIS IS MINE.
SO I AM GOING TO EITHER LEARN TO
READ IT OR I'M GOING TO MAKE
SOMEBODY TEACH ME HOW TO READ
IT.
>> IT ALL STARTS HERE AT BIRTH,
AT THIS HOSPITAL IN HER HOMETOWN
OF SEVERE COUNTY, TENNESSEE.
EVERY NEWBORN GETS A FREE BOOK.
>> I HAVE BEEN HERE THREE AND A
HALF YEARS IN THE LABOR AND
DELIVERY, AND HAVE GIFNT
PROBABLY 500 NEW BOOKS TO NEW
MOMS.
>> FAMILIES IN SEVERE COUNTY CAN
ALSO SIGN UP AT THE LIBRARY.
EACH CHILD RECEIVES 60 FREE
BOOKS, ONE EVERY MONTH UNTIL AGE
5.
>> IT REALLY, REALLY STARTED OUT
AS A PERSONAL THING FOR ME AND
IT WAS ORIGINALLY JUST MEANT FOR
THE FOCUS IN MY HOME COUNTY
BECAUSE OF MY DAD.
THEY WERE NOT -- THERE WERE NOT
BOOKS AT MY HOUSE GROWING UP AND
MY DAD COULD NOT READ OR WRITE.
IT WAS CRIPPLING THING FOR HIM.
MY TAD WAS SUCH A BRILLIANT MAN.
>> WHAT STARTED IN ONE RURAL
TENNESSEE COUNTY HAS SPREAD TO
1400 COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE
UNITED STATES, ENGLAND AND
CANADA.
EACH AFFILIATE RAISES MONEY TO
PAY FOR BOOKS AND MAILING, TWO
DOLLARS EACH.
THE IMAGINATION LIBRARY TAKES
CARE OF THE REST, RIGHT HERE
WHERE IT ALL BEGAN.
>> SOMETIMES THE MOST POWERFUL
NOINGS ARE THE MOST SIMPLE.
>> DAVID IS PRESIDENT OF THE
DOLLY WOODATION
WITH A $20 MILLION BUDGET
PRODUCES AND DISTRIBUTES ALMOST
700,000 BOOKS A MONTH.
>> I THINK WHAT WE'RE ABOUT IS
THE EMOTIONAL TIE TO BOOKS, THAT
IS CHILDREN LOVE SOMETHING, THEY
WILL CONTINUE TO DO IT.
>> BOTH GIRLS ARE EXCELLENT
READERS, JUST AHEAD OF WHERE
SHEA NUMBER IN READING.
I THINK IT MAKES HAD A BIG
DIFFERENCE WHEN YOU HAVE THIS
HUGE LIBRARY OF BOOKS AND SO
MUCH IS USED FROM.
I DON'T KNOW THAT WE WOULD BE
ABLE TO AFFORD TO BUY ALL OF
THOSE BOOKS FOR OUR CHILDREN.
AND IT'S NICE TO KNOW THAT WE
DON'T HAVE TO MAKE THAT
DECISION.
WE DON'T HAVE TO CHOOSE BETWEEN
A BOOK AND SOMETHING ELSE FOR
THE KIDS.
IT'S JUST -- THAT JUST COMES TO
OUR MAILBOX.
>> THEN YOU LOOK TO THE RIGHT
AND TO THE LEFT --
>> THE VALUE OF READING TO
SCHIRN WELL DOCUMENTED.
KIDS WHO HAVE BOOKS IN THEIR
HOMES AND ARE READ TO REGULARLY
ARE MORE LIKELY TO SUCCEED IN
SCHOOL.
>> WE CAN DEFINITELY ALWAYS TELL
IF A CHILD HAS BEEN READ TO AT
HOME.
THEIR VOCABULARIES ARE LARGER.
>> REBECCA TEACHES PRE-K AT
PIGEON FORGE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.
>> WHAT DO YOU USE WITH A
HAMMER?
>> A NAIL.
>> NAIL, THAT'S RIGHT.
>> I THINK IF YOU SEE THAT
LITERACY IS A BIG DEAL AT THEIR
HOUSE, THEY'RE GOING TO -- THEY
EMBRACE THAT MORE.
THEY'RE READY FOR IT.
>> WHERE IS HE SLEEPING?
IN THEER.
>> IN THE FLOWER.
>> THE OLDER I GET, THE MORE
APPRECIATIVE I SEEM TO BE OF THE
BOOK LADY TITLE.
IT MAKES ME FEEL MORE LIKE A
LEGITIMATE PERSON, NOT JUST A
SINGER OR ENTERTAINER BUT IT
MAKES ME FEEL LIKE I HAVE DONE
SOMETHING GOOD WITH MY LIFE AND
SUCCESS.
>> DOLLY PARTON'S IMAGINATION
LIBRARY HAS GIVEN 50 MILLION
BOOKS.
>> AND NOW SINCE THAT STORY
ORIGINALLY AIRED THAT NUMBER HAS
TOPPED 50 MILLION.
>> AGAIN THE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS
OF THE DAY, AUTHORITIES IN EGYPT
ARRESTED THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD
SPIRITUAL LEADER AND THE WHITE
HOUSE CONVENED A CABINET LEVEL
MEET TOGETHER DISCUSS U.S. AIDE
TO EGYPT.
ONLINE A SHRINKING ICE CAP HAS
OPENED NEW ROOFS ON TOP OF THE
WORLD.
KWAME HAS MORE.
>> HAD A CHINESE CARGO SHIP TOOK
A SHORTCUT LAST WEEK.
USE OUR GRAPHIC TO FOLLOW THE
PATH THROUGH THE ICE FREE
NORTHEAST PACKAGE.
THAT IS ON NEULS HOUR.PBS.ORG.
>> ON CONSEQUENCE WE LOOK BACK
AT THE MARCH ON WASHINGTON, 50
YEARS ON WITH ONE OF THE
ORIGINAL ORGANIZERS, ELEANOR
HOLMES NORTON.
I'M GENE.
>> I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
SEE YOU ONLINE AND HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.